# A GCBM Simulation Editor for FLINTui

## Mentors

Andrew O'Reilly-Nugent (2022)

## Project Details

| **Intensity**                          | **Priority**              | **Involves**  | **Mentors**              |
| -------------                          | ------------              | ------------- | -----------              |
|  Hard  |  High  |  Vue, Python, JSON, GeoTIFFs, SQL  | [@aornugent](https://github.com/aornugent); [andrew@moja.global](andrew@moja.global) |

FLINTui provides an intuitive way for new users to explore some preconfigured FLINT modules, including the Generic Budget Carbon Model (GCBM). The FLINTui client is written as a web application and can be used in a local or remote environment.

The GCBM is a spatially-explicit forest ecosystem carbon accounting tool. The key advantage of GCBM is the level of detail specified in the IPCC Tier 3 scientific model and FLINT’s ability to run this model over large spatial scales. The FLINT is used to run the GCBM and generate detailed maps of carbon changes and emission associated with land use change.

The project involves the development of a GCBM Simulation Editor for FLINTui. We want to facilitate common GCBM analysis tasks and make it easier to configure new GCBM simulations. The configuration generated by a Simulation Editor is saved to Github and reproduced in our MLops pipeline.

A core goal of the FLINTui is to make a complex model more accessible. The GCBM can be intimidating and some familiarity with earth system models or computational ecology is encouraged. We can provide a template project (the GCBM Demo Run) to start with, but a great FLINTui contributor would understand what these templates represent and develop intuitive ways to modify the simulation.

## Information for Students

moja global's software is strongly targeted at a specific scientific domain - greenhouse gas inventory in the Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU) sectors.

In 2021 we began several projects to increase the accessibility of the Full Lands Integration Tool (FLINT) by providing including the FLINTui project. FLINTui is a service or tool that is part of the moja global ecosystem built around FLINT.

Our UI experiment provides a proof of concept and a solid foundation, but interested candidates must be able to reflect on the macro-architecture of the project and take a leadership role in establishing the direction of the project. GCBM configuration is an intimidating task and there is limited prior art to draw from.

The FLINTui aims to change that.

Applicants will collaborate with the DevOps and UI working groups to ensure harmony across the moja global ecosystem. We hold regular meet-ups for moja global's Working Groups. Collaboration is a core value of the moja global community an we encourage anyone to apply.

#### First steps

Introduce yourself on Slack in the #user-interface channel and review the GCBM Demo Run included in the FLINTcloud repository. Share a visualisation of the model results and contribute to the existing FLINTui issue on GCBM configuration.
