# Google Summer of Code 2022 Ideas

## About moja global

Help fight climate change from your keyboard! [Moja global](https://moja.global) provides tools for estimating emissions and removals of greenhouse gasses (GHG) from the land sector. The [Full Lands INtegration Tool](https://github.com/moja-global/flint) also known as FLINT, available under MPL-2.0 License, is a platform developed by the moja global team for data collection, analysis and continuous improvement of greenhouse gas inventories related to land use and land-use change at local, national and global scales.

The FLINT is based on over 20 years of experience building and operating measurement, reporting and verification (MRV) tools in Australia and Canada. The FLINT provides the capability to quickly establish an operational MRV system that can respond to policymaking and planning needs. The FLINT has been designed to achieve the required accuracy through step-by-step improvements.

New FLINT users are expected to follow the IPCC guidelines to develop increasingly accurate and robust systems for greenhouse gas accounting. Users are supported by moja global, a vibrant developer community, and philanthropic partners like the UNFCCC and IUCN. We hope to grow the number of institutional users to 14 countries by 2023 and require excellent communication, education and documentation across a wide range of topics including science, policy and software development.

Moja global has hosted mentees from [Google Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/), [Google Season of Docs](https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs), [The Linux Foundation](https://mentorship.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/) and [Outreachy internships](https://outreachy.org/). The Mentorship Working Group can put interested applicants in contact with previous mentees and mentors as needed. We aim to be an inclusive community and hold regular meet-ups for moja global's Working Groups. Enthusiasm, generousity and creativity are celebrated and encourage people to join our community to collaborate for change.

## Idea: GCBM Simulation Editor for FLINT-UI

### Abstract

[FLINT-UI](https://github.com/moja-global/flint-ui) provides an intuitive way for new users to explore some preconfigured FLINT modules, including the [Generic Budget Carbon Model (GCBM)](https://community.moja.global/docs/GCBM/GCBM). The FLINT-UI client is written as a web application and can be used in a local or remote environment.

The GCBM is a spatially-explicit forest ecosystem carbon accounting tool. The key advantage of GCBM is the level of detail specified in the IPCC Tier 3 scientific model and FLINT’s ability to run this model over large spatial scales. The FLINT is used to run the GCBM and generate detailed maps of carbon changes and emission associated with land use change.

The project involves the development of a GCBM Simulation Editor for FLINT-UI. We want to facilitate common GCBM analysis tasks and make it easier to configure new GCBM simulations. The configuration generated by a Simulation Editor is saved to Github and reproduced in our MLOps pipeline.

| Category              | Rating                                                                                 |
| --------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Intensity             | Moderate                                                                               |
| Priority              | High                                                                                   |
| Skills                | VueJS, Flask, Docker                                                                   |
| Project Size          | Medium                                                                                 |
| Preferred Contributor | Student/Professional                                                                   |
| Mentors               | [@aornugent](https://github.com/aornugent), [@gabalafou](https://github.com/gabalafou) |

### Project goals

In 2021 we began several projects to increase the accessibility of the Full Lands Integration Tool (FLINT) by providing including the FLINT-UI project. FLINT-UI is a service or tool that is part of the moja global ecosystem built around FLINT.

Our UI experiment provides a proof of concept and a solid foundation, but interested candidates must be able to reflect on the macro-architecture of the project and take a leadership role in establishing the direction of the project. GCBM configuration is an intimidating task and there is limited prior art to draw from.

A core goal of the FLINT-UI is to make a complex model more accessible. The GCBM can be intimidating and some familiarity with earth system models or computational ecology is encouraged. We can provide a template project (the GCBM Demo Run) to start with, but a great FLINT-UI contributor would understand what these templates represent and develop intuitive ways to modify the simulation.

The project would entail:

- Understanding GCBM standalone configuration and workflow runs and mapping a user story for interface.
- Developing a simulation editor on FLINTui while adding support for complex workflow runs on FLINT.Cloud.
- Adding user-stories for scientists and researchers to effectively use the feature along with end-to-end testing for FLINT-UI.

### Technical skills

During this project, the developer will be working with the UI working group under the Technical Steering Committee (TSC) on contributing to FLINT-UI while getting hands-on experience on working with VueJS, Flask, Docker and GCBM. Experience with VueJS and JavaScript is preferred. Experience with Flask and Docker would be useful. Understanding of FLINT & GCBM would be preferred but not necessary.

### Resources

- FLINT-UI: https://docs.moja.global/projects/flint-ui/en/latest/
- GCBM: https://docs.moja.global/en/latest/GCBMDevelopmentSetup/index.html
- GitHub Issue: https://github.com/moja-global/FLINT-UI/issues/128

### First steps

Introduce yourself on Slack in the `#user-interface` channel and review the GCBM Demo Run included in the FLINT.Cloud repository. Share a visualisation of the model results and contribute to the existing FLINT-UI issue on the GCBM configuration.

## Idea: MLOps for reproducible science

### Abstract

moja global's community run earth system simulations to track the flow of carbon in the forestry and land sectors. Models are calibrated to account for climate, forest types, disturbances (like fires, or hurricanes and so on) and land-use transitions. We aim to make these simulations trivially reproducible by streamlining the workflow of data scientists that use our software. We provide pre-built containers with versioned code but do not yet apply this process to our data. Members of the [FLINT.Cloud](https://github.com/moja-global/flint.cloud) project aim to add Data version control (DVC) and Continuous machine learning (CML) to our deployment scenario templates.

FLINT.Cloud is a cloud deployment framework for rapid deployment of FLINT implementations and to offer FLINT as a service for demonstration purposes. FLINT.Cloud offers an easy entry point for new users to evaluate the FLINT platform and provide a blueprint for new users to roll their own.

The goal of this project is to streamline the workflow of data scientists on the FLINT.Cloud project by leveraging the combined potential of Data version control (DVC) and Continuous Machine Learning (CML). Data engineers, Machine Learning engineers, and Data science Practitioners work with a wide range of data and they need to have a workflow and tools to support it to keep track of their artifacts and their versions, resolve issues, and collaborate across teams and systems.

This project should demonstrate the functionality of reproducible analysis using Github Actions. Success will be evaluated on the number of new data, models and simulations shared within the community.

| Category              | Rating                                                                                                                                       |
| --------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Intensity             | Moderate                                                                                                                                     |
| Priority              | Medium                                                                                                                                       |
| Skills                | Docker, Python, DVC, CML, GitHub Actions                                                                                                     |
| Project Size          | Medium                                                                                                                                       |
| Preferred Contributor | Student/Professional                                                                                                                         |
| Mentors               | [@aornugent](https://github.com/aornugent), [@asmijafar20](https://github.com/asmijafar20), [@Simpleshell3](https://github.com/Simpleshell3) |

### Project goals

In 2021 we began several projects to increase the accessibility of the Full Lands Integration Tool (FLINT) by providing Docker containers running example models using a simple Flask API and the moja global's FLINT CLI. These pre-built environments provide templates for running common analysis.

moja global also make available open-source land sector datasets for use as inputs into FLINT models. The bottleneck now becomes the calibration of FLINT models to specific data requirements. Using DVC and CML provide a light-weight means to track the specific configuration and calibration of FLINT simulations. 

DVC indexes the input and outputs of model code and automatically updates the model to the latest version when data inputs change. CML is an open-source library that complements this process by integrating DVC into continuous integration pipelines such as Github Actions.

The project would entail:

- Integrating reproducible analysis using Github Actions with Data version control (DVC) and Continuous Machine Learning (CML).
- Implementing support for saving the output of the configuration phase to reuse for subsequent builds.
- Enhancing the test suite and user story of FLINT.Cloud with reproducible ​​examples from moja global datasets.

### Technical skills

Experience with Python, GitHub Actions and Data Science is preferable. Understanding of C++ and Docker is useful. Understanding DVC and CML would be preferred but not necessary. An understanding of computational ecology or earth system modelling is useful to verify what model results make for useful summaries, but your mentors can provide appropriate guidance in this area.

### Resources

- DVC: https://dvc.org/
- CML: https://cml.dev/ 
- CML & GHA: https://mlops-guide.github.io/CICD/cml_testing/ 
- FLINT.Cloud: https://github.com/moja-global/FLINT.Cloud

### First steps

Introduce yourself on Slack in the `#cloud` channel. Download the FLINT.Cloud GCBM container and re-create the GCBM Demo Run. Share your findings on Slack under `#cloud`.
