# LFX 2021: Cloud native measurement, reporting and validation of carbon emissions

Help us fight climate change through nature-based solutions!

The Full Lands INtegration Tool (FLINT) is a platform for estimating greenhouse gas emissions at local, national and global scales.

This project aims to build a cloud deployment framework for rapid deployment of FLINT implementations. This framework will be used in a continuous deployment pipeline (CD) for integration testing and the delivery of FLINT as a service (FLINTcloud) for demonstration purposes.

We hope to offer an easy entry point for new users to evaluate the FLINT platform and provide a blueprint for new users to roll their own FLINTcloud deployments. This is critical to help drive the adoption of FLINT and help scale up the monitoring, reporting and validation of carbon emissions and sequestration from land use and land use change around the world.

This will involve:

1.	Publishing a design for the complete FLINTcloud solution, detailing the required components, technologies and endpoints to be exposed.
2.	Exposing the core FLINT routines by wrapping the existing command line interface in a REST API.
3.	Creating a simple script to install the prerequisite libraries, FLINT and its modules as a standalone microservice.
4.	Creating the deployment framework and setting up a CD pipeline on commodity cloud hardware, favouring automation wherever possible (e.g. infrastructure-as-code).
5.	Providing new documentation for the cloud deployment procedure.
